MARK MCDANIELS 
Greenville, SC H: 681-443-0573 | mcdaniels.mark@gmail.com 

 
09/2022 to 11/2022 
	

NSA CAE Cybersecurity Intern 
NSA in partnership with Maryland Innovation & Security Institute (MISI) & GBC MISI Academy – Remote 
 

Managed security alerts with the NIST Cybersecurity Model, and MITRE ATT&CK framework. Used SIEM tools Splunk and Elastic to monitor real time events. Responsible for evaluating and analyzing logs. Investigated alerts for severity to resolve or escalate. Researched processes, and root cause analysis to determine actionable activities. Wrote and implemented incident reports that summarized events and provided remediation recommendations, including SIEM rules when it applied.  
Participated in four Cyberbit cyber range simulations of real-world attacks recreated in an enterprise level network. Tasked with identifying intrusions, investigating the extent of the attack, and creating a plan of action. Charged with quarantining all infected machines and removing areas of persistence. Generated Palo Alto Firewall rules to block attackers. Eliminated permissions in Active Directory, and other remediations, as necessary. Wrote incident reports of the attack in an executive summary. 
Other responsibilities were analyzing Phishing emails, vulnerability scanning, and malware analysis. 

 

Volunteering and Projects 
Cloud Computing B.S. Capstone is an integration proposal of Microsoft 365, Azure AD Connect, and Microsoft Intune. A small company was forced to adopt an ad-hoc mobile strategy with BYOD devices, and Active Directory Domain Services at the beginning of the 2020 pandemic. They needed a modern strategy that implemented user and device management that was cost effective, secure, and the least disruptive to their business. 

 Capstone Proposal Paper: https://github.com/MarkMcDaniels/DOCS/blob/main/task3mm3.docx 

 

 

02/2023 to Present 
Volunteer Developer  

BlackMUD － Greenville, SC 
Creating an updated website for BlackMUD, one of the longest running MUDs in the world. Designed and created the art assets. Fully functioning responsive design.  
Backend integration of statistics, and information to the new front-end website. 

 

REPO: https://github.com/MarkMcDaniels/blackmud-site-rebuild/tree/main 

 

 

03/2019 to 06/2021 
Volunteer Developer  

Code For Greenville － Greenville, SC 
Created custom pagination script for Track the Trolley's schedule modal. 
I built a geojson validation script for OpenData's map layers with python, and Geocodio.io's API. The script retrieved coordinates for local businesses and used them to confirm they were in the Greenville area.  

 

Certifications and Skills 
    Security+  
    Cloud+ 
    ITILv4 
    A+ 
    Python 
    AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner 
    Network+ 
    Project+ 
    Microsoft Azure Fundamentals 
    Splunk
    Phishing email analysis 
    ELK stack 
    Linux CLI 
    Windows CLI 
    Qualys 

 

EDUCATION		
Western Governors University – Millcreek, UT 

Bachelor of Science in Cloud Computing, June 2023 
Code your own path Scholarship 

 
	
University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee – Milwaukee, WI  
Associate of Arts and Science, 2021  
Suma Cum Laude 
